# Swift Guide

## Getting Started

First we'll explore the project generated by `create-diez-project`.

### Create a Diez project

```bash
yarn create diez-project my-project
cd my-project
```

### Generate the Diez project's iOS SDK

```bash
yarn build-ios
```

### Resolve [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org) dependencies in our iOS project

```bash
cd examples/ios
pod install
cd -
```

### Open the generated workspace in XCode

```bash
open examples/ios/MyProject.xcworkspace
```

## Making Changes

We can view changes in real time by starting a hot Diez server for our project. Run the following command in your shell:

```bash
yarn run-ios
```

> This should be run from our Diez project root.

Once the hot Diez server is up and running, we can build/run (`⌘+r`) our application to see changes in real time.

Let's change the background color of our application by modifying our design system's source of truth.

First open `src/DesignSystem.ts` in an editor of your choice. Look for the following block of code:

```typescript
class Colors extends Component {
  @property lightBackground = palette.white;
  @property darkBackground = palette.black;
  @property text = palette.black;
  @property caption = palette.purple;
}
```

> In this example, the `Colors` component maps semantic names to the `Palette` component's color definitions.

Let's change `lightBackground` to `palette.lightPurple` like so:

```Diff
- @property lightBackground = palette.white;
+ @property lightBackground = palette.lightPurple;
```

Save your changes to see the background color update in real time! Feel free to experiment with changing other values to see Diez in action.

> If you make any changes to the structure to the [Design System Components (DTCs)](TODO:) (e.g. you add/remove a property to any component) you will need to regenerate the SDK (`yarn run-ios`/`yarn build-ios`), clean your Xcode project (`⌘+shift+K`), and then build/run (`⌘+r`).
